Add executable scripts to start certbot and acme server in certbot-ci (#7073)
certbot/certbot: docs/contributing.rst

.. _`virtualenv docs`: https://virtualenv.pypa.io

> Running certbot against a locally deployed Pebble CA

Reviewer: I'd move this to be a new section under "Testing" after "Integration testing with the Pebble CA". My thinking here is that while this is undoubtedly useful, I think this is the least important part of testing since it's just manual testing so it doesn't need to come so early in the doc.

In this new context, it changes the titles a bit. "Integration testing with the Pebble CA" could be something like "Running automated integration tests" and this section could be called "Running manual integration tests".

What do you think?

Author: What you propose was my first move. Then thinking of it again, I asked myself this question: as a contributor, willing to add a functionality, what would be the first thing I would do after writing the code?

I think it is: I would execute certbot to check my functionality is working.

In fact, we could consider that calling certbot to check the functionality is not part of the Quality Assurance process, it is part of the development workflow, and what I add here is a tool to help you doing this step. 

In that spirit, running the unit tests and the integration tests is part of the QA, and will maybe be executed by the contributor, or inevitably by the CI that will yell at you back when the PR is opened ^^

So in this case, the tool added here should be part of the dev section, right where I placed it, and unit/integration tests are in the testing part.

Does it make sense to you?

Reviewer: I understand where you're coming from, but I still would like to see this change for a couple reasons.

The first reason is that it breaks the flow of the document, at least in some cases. For example, when we run Certbot hackathons, we usually tell people to go to this doc. In master, the changes are described in this order:

1. Set up the development environment.
2. Find an issue to work on.
3. Test it.

I think this is the correct workflow as there's not much to test against Pebble until you have something to work on.

The second reason is I suspect most core Certbot devs won't do this and therefore we shouldn't make these instructions so prominent. I suspect they'll rely more heavily on automated testing or manually testing against staging.

For those reasons, I'll suggest again you make the changes I described above, but as a compromise, I think you could add links to this section at the end of "Running a local copy of the client" and/or you could add a brief intro to the top of the "Testing" section with links to each section.

Author: Indeed, I can confirm your suspicion about core developers, at least on my side ^^

I agree with your compromise. Then I will put an intro on top of the Testing section. I think in this case it is the clearest thing to do.

Author: Done.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> By following the instructions above, you can execute Certbot against a local instance

Reviewer: I think this is what you mean, but you should double check.

I also added the word "manually" to differentiate it from the automated integration tests.

```suggestion
By following the instructions below, you can manually execute Certbot against a local instance
```

Author: In fact I wanted to refer to the previous section to ensure that the user is in a properly set up venv, because you need that before calling the commands exposed by certbot-ci. I improved the clarity of this paragraph.

> of Pebble CA. This is useful to verify that the modifications done to the code makes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the Pebble CA. This is useful to verify that the modifications done to the code makes
```
I also personally like "Pebble ACME server" over "Pebble CA" but either is fine.

Also, optional nit: I think it'd be useful to make the first reference to "Pebble" in each of these sections link to https://github.com/letsencrypt/pebble. If you're a new dev, what's a Pebble?

Author: Did the modification, and put a link ref for Pebble.

Certbot behave as expected.

You need Docker installed, and a user with access to the Docker client.

The virtual environment set up with `python tools/venv.py` contains two commands
that can be used once the virtual environment is activated:

.. code-block:: shell

    run_acme_server

> - Start a local instance of Pebble CA, and keep displaying its log on foreground.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Starts a local instance of Pebble and runs in the foreground printing its logs.
```

- Press CTRL+C to stop this instance.

> - This instance is configured to validate challenges against a certbot executed locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This instance is configured to validate challenges against certbot executed locally.
```

.. code-block:: shell

    certbot_tests [ARGS...]

> - Execute certbot with the provided ARGS in test mode: verbose output, debug enabled...

Reviewer: I'd personally get rid of the phrase "test mode" and say something like:

> Execute Certbot with the provided arguments and other arguments useful for testing such as verbose output, full tracebacks in case Certbot crashes, etc.

Author: Improved the sentence with your advices.

- Execution is preconfigured to interact with the Pebble CA started with ``run_acme_server``.

> - Any arguments can be passed as they would be to Certbot (eg. ``certonly -d test.example.com``).

Reviewer: nit: I'd say `certbot_tests certonly -d test.example.com` to complete the example.

Author: Done.

Here is a typical workflow to verify that Certbot successfully issued a certificate
using an HTTP-01 challenge on a machine with Python 3:

.. code-block:: shell

    python tools/venv3.py
    source venv3/bin/activate
    run_acme_server &

>     certbot_tests certonly --standalone -d test.example.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    certbot_test certonly --standalone -d test.example.com
```

>     # To stop Pebble, launch `bg` to get back the background job, then press CTRL+C

Reviewer: Did you mean fg?

Author: Indeed !

Tests will be run using pytest. A test report and a code coverage report will be
displayed at the end of the integration tests execution.

.. _Pebble: https://github.com/letsencrypt/pebble

.. _manual integration:

Running manual integration tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can also manually execute Certbot against a local instance of the `Pebble`_ ACME server.
This is useful to verify that the modifications done to the code makes Certbot behave as expected.

To do so you need:

- Docker installed, and a user with access to the Docker client,
- an available `local copy`_ of Certbot.

The virtual environment set up with `python tools/venv.py` contains two commands
that can be used once the virtual environment is activated:

.. code-block:: shell

    run_acme_server

- Starts a local instance of Pebble and runs in the foreground printing its logs.
- Press CTRL+C to stop this instance.
- This instance is configured to validate challenges against certbot executed locally.

.. code-block:: shell

    certbot_tests [ARGS...]

> - Execute certbot with the provided arguments and other arguments useful for testing purpose,

Reviewer: You can also say "useful for testing purposes".

> - Execute certbot with the provided arguments and other arguments useful for testing purpose,

Author: Then I choose the minimal correction ^^
